so then it is 1500 GMT that is just past
5:00 p.m. in Gaza where Israel's
bombardment of the strip is unrelenting
we've just received reports that Israel
struck the Assad Al safawi school about
an hour ago it's in the AL daraj
neighborhood of Gaza City where hundreds
of people have been Sheltering moments
after the attack many had to flee
carrying just whatever they could
Israel's military is expanding its
operations by launching more attacks in
the central and southern areas in the
south hospitals are becoming overwhelmed
doctors describe the situation as
catastrophic the wounded are being
treated on floors and in corridors in
overcrowded facilities with limited
[Music]
supplies well Israel's on relenting air
strikes in the South have reduced entire
neighborhoods to Rubble more than half
of the homes in Gaza have been destroyed
or damaged by Israeli attack since
October the 7th well let's get the
picture from Khan yunas now tar abuo is
standing by for us there in southern
Gaza so T Israel is targeting the
central and southern parts of Gaza but
the attack on that school in Gaza City
shows that the north is still in Focus
[Music]
too yes uh absolutely attacks against
hospitals and even schools in the north
of the Gaza City uh had uh renewed Again
by the occupation forces this time at
school in the North or uh in the north
the Northern areas had been attacked and
uh these areas considered to be an
operation zone for the Israeli
occupation forces that had regular
battles with Hamas fighters in that area
meanwhile people had used to take these
areas as shter for them with they tend
to be protected from the Israeli uh
artillery bombing and the aerial uh
bombardment that had had been carried
out by the occupation forces since the
early beginning of this round of
fighting uh the majority of residents
from the Eastern areas of the north of
the Gaza trip whose houses are adjacent
to the borders fled earlier to the uh
schools that are affiliated to the
United Nations and the schools that also
uh run by the government uh inside the
Gaza Strip in order to be away from the
Israeli Relentless bombardment and to
receive also humanitarian AIDs that are
distributed by the United Nation
but the the atts on those areas continue
in order toce people to flee to the
south of the of Gaza and uh at the same
time to give a clear Mobility for the
maneuvering troops on the ground to act
in these areas uh the M the the fact on
the ground in the not that some people
refuse to evacuate simply because they
don't have any safe Corridor bage out to
the South uh to the southern areas and
they are still now stay and remain and
the in these shelters they were running
low in terms of for water especially
with the limited number of the
humanitarian trucks that were allowed to
enter the north of the Gaza now as I
said you're in car Unice in the South it
is gaza's second largest city and home
to hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
you've been describing who've had to
flee and been forced from their homes
tell us what the later situation there
is
now
yes uh the situation on the south is
very complicated and is getting much
more exacerbation uh especially with the
Israeli orders that had been delivered
to the residents in the Eastern areas of
kanun to flee to Rafa in order to be
away from the Israeli bombardment but
the fact is that the attacks on the
south did not stop as Israel bombarded
ra district for multiple times during
the last couple of days after the
collapse of the truth and the
possibility for reaching further
extension of the ceasefire between Hamas
and Israel and uh the uh a number of
people had practically started to flee
and to evacuate to Rafa uh District they
are now taking shelter on public areas
and uh we just uh take a look uh a close
look over the people there we found them
like they are setting up tinted camps
they are taking uh shelter in on the
street where there is no any kind of
proper human facilities to be provided
for them unless they are using a very
primitive way of sitting fire in order
to feed their children and to do uh
their Necessities but they are they
don't have any further options because
ra considered to be the last shelter for
the people who had been evacuated for
more than one time from the homelands as
they were forced to flee from the first
time from the north of Gaza and now they
head to the far south of the territory
as the bombardment did not stop that
clean till this now more than 15,000
Palestinians with more than 30,000
others who have been been critically
injured and now receiving a treatment on
the hospitals of the south of the
territory but there is a very hidden
problem that it yet not yet had been
discovered is the fact that if there's
going to be more military including into
khuna City it means that the uh the
majority of hospitals in the South will
be forced to evacuate the injured people
to rougher hospitals which considered to
be very limited in terms of the number
and the capacity as well all right we'll
leave it there t thanks for that
comprehensive upate appreciate that t
Abu AUM that inar unus in the south of
Gaza